---
permalink: /speakers/mor-geva
title: "Did Aristotle Use a Laptop? A Question Answering Benchmark with Implicit Reasoning Strategies"
speaker: Mor Geva
author: Mor Geva
date: Oct 14, 2020
time: 12:00 UTC
timeconverter: "https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20200902T120000&p1=1440&p2=224&p3=179&p4=136&p5=676&p6=33&p7=152"
bio: "Mor is a Ph.D. candidate at Tel Aviv University and a research intern at the Allen Institute for AI, advised by Prof. Jonathan Berant. Her research revolves around developing language understanding systems that can reason over text in a robust and interpretable manner."
read_time: true
author_profile: true
layout: single
---

<a href="https://lolmythesis.com/" class="one-line">Explicitly collecting implicit questions</a>

A key limitation in current datasets for multi-hop reasoning is that the required steps for answering the question are mentioned in it explicitly. In this talk, I will introduce StrategyQA, a question answering (QA) benchmark where the required reasoning steps are implicit in the question, and should be inferred using a strategy. A fundamental challenge in this setup is how to elicit such creative questions from crowdsourcing workers, while covering a broad range of potential strategies. We propose a data collection procedure that combines term-based priming to inspire annotators, careful control over the annotator population, and adversarial filtering for eliminating reasoning shortcuts. Moreover, we annotate each question with (1) a decomposition into reasoning steps for answering it, and (2) Wikipedia paragraphs that contain the answers to each step. Overall, StrategyQA includes 2,780 examples, each consisting of a strategy question, its decomposition, and evidence paragraphs. Analysis shows that questions in StrategyQA are short, topic-diverse, and cover a wide range of strategies. Empirically, we show that humans perform well (87%) on this task, while our best baseline reaches an accuracy of ∼66%.

<hr>

**Mor** is a Ph.D. candidate at Tel Aviv University and a research intern at the Allen Institute for AI, advised by Prof. Jonathan Berant. Her research revolves around developing language understanding systems that can reason over text in a robust and interpretable manner.

#### Presentation Materials
<i class="fas fa-fw fa-video"></i> [Talk Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4-cW3PQ_9Y8&list=PL0zsOCvKa2iEqmPV6WGhjuP-tsrUy102C){:target="_blank"}  
